Brother Mark Sanderson
has labored over his material
and is looking forward to
presenting his talk.
It’s entitled
“Your Labor Is Not in Vain.”
Brother Sanderson,
you have our ears.
The date was
September 8, 1922,
Cedar Point, Ohio.
Brother Rutherford,
before that assembled crowd,
said those words
that still ring in our ears.
He said: “Behold!
The King reigns!
“You are his publicity agents.
“Therefore advertise,
advertise, advertise
the King and his kingdom.”
Well, what a call to action that was
by Brother Rutherford.
And in those few words,
Brother Rutherford showed
that he recognized something
that is very important.
The faithful men and women
that were in that audience
and so many others
who have followed them since
were to be
Jehovah’s publicity agents.
They were to be preachers and teachers
of the good news of God’s Kingdom.
Now, that’s a simple fact,
but it reveals something amazing
about our heavenly Father, Jehovah.
Although he is so almighty,
although just one angel
could kill 185,000 in one night,
we know Jehovah
could use any miraculous means
in order to accomplish
this preaching work.
But how has Jehovah
chosen to accomplish it?
By using imperfect,
ordinary men and women
like you and like me
in order to accomplish
the greatest preaching work
that has ever been accomplished in history.
It reminds us of what
the apostle Paul wrote here
in
1 Corinthians chapter 1.
Will you open your Bibles
and read it with me?
First Corinthians 1:26,
the apostle Paul said:
“For you see his calling of you, brothers,
“that there are not many wise
in a fleshly way,
“not many powerful, not many of noble birth,
“but God chose the foolish things
of the world
“to put the wise men to shame;
“and God chose the weak things
of the world
“to put the strong things to shame;
“and God chose the insignificant things
of the world
“and the things looked down on,
the things that are not,
“to bring to nothing the things that are,
so that no one might boast
in the sight of God.”
Well, perhaps those in Corinth
thought that being a new movement,
Jehovah would raise up
people who were powerful
—people from important families
or people who had great worldly wisdom—
but that was not the means
that Jehovah was going to use.
He was going to use people
who were described
as “unlettered and ordinary.”
Well, for what purpose?
Well, really, to magnify him
and to magnify his almightiness.
He could use these imperfect people
to accomplish this tremendous work
and, really, so that no human
could ever boast
in what was accomplished.
Well, when those words
of Brother Rutherford went out
—that call to action—
our brothers got busy.
Brother Melvin Sargent,
who was baptized in 1912
and who was present there in Cedar Point
to hear those words, said this:
“Those of us inside
the Lord’s organization
“have tried,
in every way possible,
“to turn their attention
to the message of life.
“We have used slogans,
full-page advertisements,
“radio, sound cars,
portable phonographs,
“gigantic conventions,
“parades of information-walkers
carrying signs,
and a growing army
of house-to-house ministers.”
How true!
And perhaps
some of you shared in some of those
different activities,
and you used those tools.
Well, what about today?
Today, brothers, we have amazing tools
to help us to accomplish the work,
things that we
could never even have imagined:
jw.org, the JW Library app,
our Language app, JW Broadcasting,
as well as literature that’s now available
in literally hundreds
and hundreds of languages.
But, brothers,
no matter how wonderful
any of these tools are,
no matter how many tools
we ever produce,
we cannot forget one simple point:
Tools need users.
And that means
that every one of you
—every publisher
of the good news of God’s Kingdom—
is absolutely essential
and is absolutely needed
to accomplish this work.
Do you agree with me?
And we have to say
that as a Governing Body, as we travel,
we see you preaching boldly
from house to house.
We see your literature carts in airports,
on public corners, in train stations.
The work that you are accomplishing
is amazing,
and you are to be commended
for your hard work in preaching.
It’s much like the
apostle Paul said here
in 1 Corinthians 15:58,
he said:
“Therefore, my beloved brothers,
“be steadfast, immovable,
“always having plenty to do
in the work of the Lord,
“knowing that your labor is not in vain
in connection with the Lord.”
Well, that’s what you’re doing!
You see, you have
“plenty to do in the work of the Lord.”
But, let’s ask another question.
We know, of course,
that our “labor is not in vain,”
but could we from time to time
come to that wrong conclusion?
Could we begin to think
that our labor really is in vain?
Well, let’s consider
three different areas
where we might wrongfully
come to that conclusion.
Here’s the first.
With advancing age
or with increasing health challenges,
we may begin to think:
‘Well, my voice
is really very, very small.
‘I really cannot contribute very much anymore
to the preaching of the good news.’
Well, if that’s the way
you may have felt,
it might be encouraging
to think about what we did today
—the release
of our brand new songbook.
Now, isn’t it true?
We love to listen to our choral singing.
But now, when you listen
to that choral singing,
what is it
that makes it beautiful?
Is it the fact that
there are two or three loud,
booming voices that overpower everyone?
No, the beauty lies
in all of the voices coming together,
harmonizing,
making beautiful music that praises Jehovah.
So, what can we learn from that?
Well, you see,
whether our voice is loud
or whether our voice is very soft
—or very small—
we all can contribute
to this wonderful chorus
that’s being sung around this earth
to praise Jehovah.
And, as Brother Splane
so nicely mentioned in his talk,
the principle of 2 Corinthians 8:12
must be very powerful in our minds.
You see, there,
the apostle Paul said:
“For if the readiness is there first,
“it is especially acceptable according
to what a person has,
not according to what
a person does not have.”
Well, now, we apply that
to many different types of giving.
We apply it to our literal contributions
of material things.
But we also can apply it
to our use of our time,
our energy, our abilities
—everything that we give
for the preaching of this good news.
So the question is not,
What do you not have?
But the question is,
What do you have?
Do you have a voice?
Well, whether it’s strong or soft,
use it.
Continue to use it to praise Jehovah.
If you use sign language to communicate,
well, then, use your hands
to be able to tell others
about the good news of God’s Kingdom.
Just recently, a brother sent me
an experience of a Bible student
in India who is both deaf
and also was born with no arms.
Now, how can this man communicate?
Can you imagine?
He’s learned to do sign language
with his feet,
and he is able to communicate
and express his voice in that way.
Isn’t that wonderful?
We can use what we have
to praise Jehovah.
And, I have to say,
the Governing Body
deeply appreciates
all of the hard work that you brothers
are doing whether your voice
is loud and strong or quite weak.
We appreciate every one of you
and the work that you’re doing
in preaching the good news
of God’s Kingdom.
But now let’s talk
about a second area
where we might think
that our labor is in vain.
This is when we say:
“Well, someone’s work
is really far better than mine.
They can do
so much more than I can.”
Well, it is a human tendency
for us to want to
compare ourselves with others.
But, what is the counsel
that we have from God’s Word in this regard?
Let’s read Galatians 6:4.
Galatians 6:4, it says:
“But let each one
examine his own actions,
“and then he will have cause
for rejoicing in regard
“to himself alone,
and not in comparison with the other person.”
Yes, we have to look at what we can do
and what we can contribute
to the work ourselves.
And in this regard,
we have a beautiful example
that comes from our modern-day history
that I’d like to share with you.
It’s the example
of a brother named Adolf Weber.
Now, Brother Weber was baptized
in Allegheny, Pennsylvania,
all the way back in the year 1890.
Now, that’s a long time ago,
isn’t it?
Now, who was this man?
He was a Swiss woodcutter.
He had come to America,
and he worked
with Brother Russell as a gardener.
He obtained a very deep knowledge
of the Scriptures
from working with Brother Russell.
After a time, Brother Weber
wanted with all his heart
to go back to Europe and begin preaching
in the French-language territories.
But, now, who was he?
Well, the yearbook—
I’ll quote it.
I won’t try to make any judgments
because I didn’t know Brother Weber.
But here’s what it said,
‘Brother Weber was
a simple man
of peasantlike appearance.’
Well, if you see his picture
in the Proclaimers book,
you might agree with that.
But, at the same time,
the yearbook said:
“He was a devout, mature Christian
who knew well the English,
French, and German languages.”
In fact, he translated
the Studies in the Scriptures
and other early publications
into French.
Well, as soon as
he got back to Switzerland,
Brother Weber got busy.
He placed advertisements
in French-language religious newspapers
and magazines
for Volume 1 of the Studies in the Scriptures
and other books of Brother Russell.
Well, as a result,
people began to order
Brother Russell’s publications.
They began to subscribe
to The Watchtower in French.
Brother Weber
went on big preaching campaigns.
He would go through
Switzerland placing tracts.
He would go to France and Belgium,
and he would meet with people
who had ordered literature
or who had subscribed to The Watchtower,
all the while supporting himself
by doing woodcutting or gardening.
But now, were all of these efforts
blessed by Jehovah?
Yes, because throughout that territory
—in Switzerland,
in France, in Belgium—
many began to associate
and began to serve Jehovah.
But then what happened?
In 1912, Brother Russell
was on a trip through Europe,
and he decided to arrange
to open a French-language office
in Geneva, Switzerland.
And so when Brother Russell
looked at the candidates available,
he felt that there were other brothers
who were better educated
who should now take over the work.
Well, now,
how would that affect Brother Weber?
Here this humble man
who had worked so hard
to get everything established
was now being asked, as it were,
to turn over the reins.
Well, Brother Weber didn’t hesitate a bit.
The yearbook said
he gladly stepped down
in favor
of the more educated brothers.
Well, was he discouraged?
Did he give up?
Did he try to compare himself
with those other men?
No, the yearbook went on to say
that he kept a good spirit.
He continued making his pilgrim visits
to the congregations
and visiting the isolated brothers
who spoke French.
But what happened?
Do you know
the end of the story?
Well, just after a few years,
those well-educated brothers
who had been placed in charge of the work—
Do you know what happened to them?
They all proved to be unfaithful.
And what happened?
Well, where’s Brother Weber?
We have to go and find this dear,
humble man and bring him back.
He had to go
and strengthen the brothers,
encourage them, readjust them,
which he gladly did.
Despite the many challenges
that this brother experienced,
he continued to strengthen
and fortify the brothers
until he finished his earthly course
sometime about the year 1947.
What’s the lesson that we can learn?
See, Brother Weber
demonstrated the truth of Galatians 6:4.
He proved what his own work was.
He was content to be a lesser one
and to use his abilities and his spirituality
to be a source
of encouragement to others.
He did not spend all of his time
comparing himself with others,
but he brought what he had
and he used it to honor Jehovah.
Well, his labor was not in vain.
Do you know in the area
where he opened up the work so long ago,
there are well over
100,000 publishers
who are praising Jehovah’s name?
What a powerful lesson we can learn
from this simple,
humble brother, Adolf Weber.
But, now, let’s talk about our final area
where we might begin to think
that our labor is in vain.
Perhaps some of you here
have been serving
at Bethel for decades
—many, many years—
and now you have been
reassigned to the field.
Others of you
may be circuit overseers
who have reached the age of 70,
and now you’ve begun
to serve as regular or as special pioneers.
Well, now, should any
of you in that situation
feel that your labors have been in vain?
Absolutely not!
Quite frankly, brothers,
if possible,
all of us at Bethel should return
to the field, if it were possible.
Because what did
Jesus say at Matthew 9:37?
“Yes, the harvest is great,
“but the workers are few.
“Therefore, beg the Master
of the harvest
to send out workers into his harvest.”
Yes, the workers
are needed out in the field.
And these dear brothers and sisters
who have returned to the field
who are now in the pioneer service,
they are accomplishing tremendous work.
Just as the Gilead School
now has been designed
to train special full-time servants
to strengthen and stabilize,
well, now these ones who have returned
to the field are having a powerful
and strengthening effect
on the congregations.
They’re sharing their experience,
their maturity,
the many wonderful lessons
that they learned
from all of those years either
in Bethel service or in traveling work.
Now, you know the Governing Body
receives many letters from the field
—many letters of appreciation.
But I’d like to just quote
from one that we recently received.
A sister wrote to the Governing Body
and she said this:
“I want to thank you
for sending into the field
“those who have served
in special full-time service.
“While I cannot imagine
how hard the decision must have been,
“I know I have benefited
beyond words
“from having such dear ones
in my congregation.
“They are truly
a treasure from Jehovah.
“What a blessing to all those
“that have such ones in their congregation!
I thank you so much!”
Well, now,
that’s just one letter.
But those words have been echoed
by publishers in this country
and all around the world
who have received these
well-qualified individuals
coming to their congregations.
So, dear brothers and sisters,
we’d like to say to all those
of you who have been reassigned
how much we love you,
how much we respect you,
how much we appreciate your work.
“Your labor is not in vain”!
Well, it truly is thrilling to be a part
of Jehovah’s organization at this time.
From those small beginnings
back in 1922 until today,
it’s amazing to see
what has been accomplished
—now more than 8 million publishers
of the good news.
Our magnificent
and our wonderful God, Jehovah,
has chosen to accomplish
this tremendous preaching work
using ordinary, imperfect people.
And we have been given
the tremendous privilege
to be his fellow workers.
Brothers, are you determined
to continue to preach along with us
until we say that this work
is finally completed?
Then may all of us have
“plenty to do in the work of the Lord”
with full confidence
that our labor will never be in vain.
We certainly want to thank Mark
for that fine talk,
and it’s encouraging to know
that our labor will never be in vain.
So Jehovah remembers
us for the effort that we put forth
in our service,
and he remembers us for good.
Next, we have Brother Gerrit Lösch
with a rousing subject for us.
The theme is
“Be a Conqueror.”
The English word “conqueror”
refers to one that conquers.
To conquer means
“to defeat someone or something.”
The Spanish explorers and warriors
who successfully conquered
much of America in the 16th century
are called conquistadores, or conquerors.
One of them was Hernán Cortés,
who conquered the Aztec Empire.
At the peak, the Spanish Empire
ruled over 19.4 million
square kilometers,
or 7.5 million square miles.
But who conquered more land
than the Spanish?
The Mongols and the British.
At its greatest extent,
the British Empire was known
as the largest empire in history,
as it covered more than
13,000,000 square miles,
or 33.7 million square kilometers,
which is approximately a quarter
of the earth’s total land area.
Despite its overseas holdings,
it was barely bigger than
the Mongol Empire under Kublai Khan.
The British Empire was bigger
only because of its overseas landholdings.
The Mongols were a nomadic people
who originated from the grassland plateau
of what is today Mongolia,
in central and northeast Asia.
Their speedy conquests,
beginning in the early 13th century
of our Common Era,
changed the face of Asia
and half of Europe.
In just 25 years,
the Mongols subjugated the inhabitants
of more territories than the Romans
had conquered in four centuries.
At the peak of their power,
they ruled from Vietnam to Hungary
(a distance of about 5,500 miles,
or 8,700 kilometers)
and from Siberia to India
—the largest contiguous land empire
in recorded history,
including modern times.
Then there was Hitler
who saw himself as a world conqueror.
He promoted the slogan
“Today, Germany belongs to us;
tomorrow, the whole world.”
His attempt to conquer
the world failed miserably.
How about conquests in Bible times?
After the Exodus of the Israelites
from Egypt in 1513 before our Common Era,
Jehovah told the Israelites
to conquer the land of Canaan.
They were afraid and disobeyed.
Besides Moses,
only Joshua and Caleb were willing to fight.
Numbers 13:30 says:
“Then Caleb tried to calm the people
“as they stood before Moses by saying:
“‘Let us go up immediately,
and we are sure to take possession of it,
because we can surely conquer it.’”
For their lack of faith,
the Israelites had to wander
for 40 years in the wilderness.
After that, they conquered Canaan
during a period of about five years.
In King Jehoshaphat’s day,
Jehovah caused a victory
over the Ammonites, Moabites,
and Edomites
from Seir—an alliance of nations.
Israel did not conquer in their own strength,
but Jehovah gave them the victory
by confusing the enemy alliance
so that they killed each other,
according to 2 Chronicles 20:1-4.
What about conquests
in the time of the end?
Do you know a world conqueror
that conquered a larger area
than the Mongol and the British Empires?
Well, Revelation 6:2 gives the answer.
We can read about that conqueror:
“And I saw, and look! a white horse,
and the one seated on it had a bow;
“and a crown was given him
[well we know it refers to Jesus],
and he went out conquering
and to complete his conquest.”
Well, Jesus now rules over the whole earth.
When did he go out to conquer?
In 1914 of our Common Era.
And when will he complete his conquest?
At Armageddon.
Whom did Jesus already conquer?
First, he conquered Satan and the demons,
throwing them out of heaven
and restricting their movements
to the earth and its vicinity.
This war is described
in Revelation chapter 12.
But in 1914,
his conquest was not complete yet.
At Armageddon, it will be.
Satan will be thrown
into an abyss of inactivity,
and at the end
of the foretold thousand years,
he will be totally destroyed.
What a conquest that will be!
At Armageddon, also,
all human governments
will likewise be conquered.
Let’s read Revelation 17:14,
where we find this prophecy.
It says:
“These will battle with the Lamb,
“but because he is Lord of lords
“and King of kings,
the Lamb will conquer them.
“Also, those with him who are called
“and chosen and faithful
[anointed Christians]
will do so.”
How about spiritual conquests?
In Revelation chapters 2 and 3,
seven times Jesus says
with reference to the anointed:
“To the one who conquers.”
One example is Revelation 3:21, it says:
“To the one who conquers I will grant
to sit down with me on my throne,
just as I conquered and sat down
with my Father on his throne.”
How do the anointed conquer
even right now before Armageddon?
They conquer
by remaining loyal to Jehovah.
They conquer due to their faith,
due to their love for Jehovah and Jesus.
They also conquer the evil
with the good in everyday life.
What about the “great crowd”
mentioned in Revelation chapter 7?
Talking about the situation on earth
under the Messianic Kingdom,
Revelation 21:7 says:
“To anyone thirsting
“I will give from the spring
of water of life free.
“Anyone conquering
will inherit these things,
and I will be his God
and he will be my son.”
The Revelation Climax book,
therefore, says on page 304:
“The great crowd . . . too must conquer.”
Even children can be conquerors.
When a child is shoved by a sibling,
usually the child’s first reaction
is to shove back.
Sadly, such behavior
is not limited to children.
Many adults act similarly.
When offended by someone,
they want to get even.
Granted, most adults
will not give a literal shove,
but many will push back
in more subtle ways.
Whatever method is used,
the intent is the same—to retaliate.
Although the urge
to get even is deep-seated,
true Christians
resist giving in to that urge.
Instead, they strive to follow
the apostle Paul’s admonition
of Romans 12:17:
“Return evil for evil to no one.”
Paul explains in detail
how all of us
can conquer in everyday life.
He wrote in Romans 12:20, 21:
“‘If your enemy is hungry,
feed him;
“‘if he is thirsty,
give him something to drink;
“for by doing this
you will heap fiery coals on his head.’
“Do not let yourself
be conquered by the evil,
but keep conquering the evil
with the good.”
Back to you children.
How can you
conquer the evil with the good
if a sibling or a classmate
says something or does something unkind?
You conquer by not retaliating.
A worldly nursery rhyme
puts it this way:
“Tit for tat.
You kill my dog; I kill your cat.”
Maybe some of you know that.
But Jesus tells us to forgive.
Do something good.
Pray for the other child.
Because another has made a mistake,
it is no reason
for us to make one also, is it?
Jehovah does not want
us to retaliate.
In 1 Thessalonians 5:15,
it says: “See that no one renders
“injury for injury to anyone else,
but always pursue what is good
toward one another and to all others.”
Therefore, children,
are you willing
to conquer the evil with the good?
We want to commend you
for your effort to do that.
You are making Jehovah’s
heart glad this way.
How can we all conquer spiritually?
We do so by not retaliating.
This is the way of love.
Many came into the truth
because of a Christian mate
doing good to an
unbelieving mate for decades,
although having been treated terribly.
In the domestic setting,
a wife who shows genuine kindness
to her husband
after he makes unpleasant comments
about her beliefs or yells at her
may well diffuse
a potentially explosive situation.
Such sisters conquer evil with good.
We want to commend all of you
who are not giving up
on your unbelieving marriage mates.
If you show understanding
and compassion
to the person
who is treating you badly,
you might make him or her
want to learn more about
the Bible and more about Jehovah.
No matter how he or she responds,
your mild and kind actions and words
make the person wonder why you are different.
1 Peter 3:4 refers
to “the incorruptible adornment
of the quiet and mild spirit”
—quiet and mild spirit.
On one island, a Pentecostal woman
started to study the Bible.
But her opposed husband did,
of course, not like it.
He even threatened the elders.
But then he fell sick
and was taken to a hospital,
where he fell into a coma.
When he eventually regained consciousness,
two sisters visited
and brought him some soup,
which he first thought was for his wife.
“No, the soup is for you!” said the sisters.
“That touched me deeply,” he recalls.
“No Pentecostal had visited me,
yet two of Jehovah’s Witnesses
—the very people I had strongly opposed—
brought me a meal.”
He recovered from his illness.
He studied twice a week
and was baptized in 1998.
You want to hear another soup experience?
Two brothers in Russia were preaching
from house to house one morning.
A woman listened to their introduction
and then excused herself.
She returned with a pot of borscht
—a red beet soup—
and threw this on the brothers,
adding angrily, “Do not visit me again!”
The brothers returned home
to change their clothes
and then continued their activity.
Later that day,
they went to the market
to order ingredients
needed for a good borscht.
That evening,
they visited the same woman again.
They told her that this time they came,
not to preach, but to compensate her
for the loss of her family’s food,
knowing that the soup she had wasted
might have been the entire family meal.
Then they handed her the foodstuffs
that they had purchased.
The woman was so surprised
that she invited the brothers in to talk.
In time, a Bible study
was started with this woman.
When non-Witnesses treat us badly,
it is to be expected.
But when problems occur
with a spiritual brother or sister,
the pain can be much deeper.
One brother recalled, “My biggest hurdle
when coming into the truth
was accepting the fact that
Jehovah’s people are not perfect.”
Thus, if a fellow Christian,
especially one
with privileges in the congregation,
is thoughtless
and acts in an unchristian way,
it can hurt us.
‘How can such things occur among
Jehovah’s people?’ some may ask.
Actually, such things did occur
even among anointed Christians
in the days of the apostles.
How should we respond
when we are affected?
We can forgive,
and we can pray for them.
In this way,
we prove ourselves to be conquerors.
Recall the experience of Joseph.
His brothers dealt cruelly with him,
but he conquered the bad
they did to him with good,
resulting in happiness for all
and certainly also for Jehovah.
Brothers in Nazi times
and in concentration camps
did not retaliate
when mistreated by SS officers.
Because of that,
some of the SS officers came into the truth.
Some officers in camps preferred to be shaved
by the brothers
—only the brothers.
They were nervous
if other prisoners would do it,
fearing that one would, perhaps,
retaliate and cut their throats in revenge.
Twelve sisters were in the camp
of Birkenau only a few days,
then they were taken
to another camp, Auschwitz,
to work in the homes of SS officers.
They wanted
only Jehovah’s Witnesses for that.
These officers were afraid
of having others
working in their households.
They trusted that the sisters
would not try to poison them.
In the 1960’s, I met Franz Desch,
from Jenbach, Austria.
He was taken to the
Gusen concentration camp.
There, he was able to study the Bible
with an SS officer.
How much progress was made?
Well, imagine the great joy
of both of them when,
some years later,
they met as brothers at a convention.
Now, let’s talk about
conquering opposition today.
The pressures of life in this wicked system
can make people feel angry.
Although we are kind, peaceful,
and law-abiding,
Jehovah’s enemies
launch vicious attacks against us
—like some people in lands such as Russia.
Some slander us in the press
or even in courts.
Some governments have banned God’s people.
Jesus said that his followers
ought to expect that.
In the future,
as the great tribulation gets closer,
we may have to face even more opposition.
How should we react?
Romans 12:17 says to never
“return evil for evil” in word or deed.
Regardless of what the Devil
and his agents bring upon us,
by “conquering the evil with the good,”
we can give a fine witness.
An important key is using gracious speech.
Proverbs 25:15:
“A mild tongue itself can break a bone.”
Jesus is the best example of not retaliating.
When the apostle Peter
cut off the ear of Malchus
in the garden of Gethsemane,
Jesus reproved him and healed Malchus.
He did good to Malchus,
although he was a member
of that mob that had come
to arrest Jesus.
Well, Jesus was perfect; we are not.
But we need to conquer also ourselves.
We need to conquer wrong attitudes
or bad habits that we might have.
To conquer also means,
according to a dictionary,
“to gain control of a problem
or difficulty through great effort.”
Many of us, when we came into the truth,
have conquered the smoking habit,
overuse of alcohol,
or drug addiction with great effort.
Then there is the bad habit
of viewing pornography.
According to one estimate,
the number of pornographic e-mails
that are sent daily
amount to 2.5 billion,
or 1.7 million per minute.
Great effort is needed
to conquer the addiction
of viewing pornography.
After baptism,
there may be more things to conquer
like overeating, a violent temper,
the inclination to gossip
—perhaps truthfully,
but negatively about others.
It also includes conquering
an exaggerated fear of men.
Faith in Jehovah will help you
to conquer such fears.
Governments may try to
restrict freedom to worship God.
We may even feel not sure
about our own lives.
But remember:
The antidote to fear of man
is faith in Jehovah.
1 John 5:5 asks:
“Who can conquer the world?
“Is it not the one who has faith
that Jesus is the Son of God?”
The previous verse, verse 4, says:
“And this is the conquest
“that has conquered the world,
our faith.”
In view of his matchless power,
Jehovah could force us
to conquer every weakness
without having to struggle
or to learn from our mistakes.
But why does he not do so?
Jehovah has given us
the precious gift of free will.
By choosing to do God’s will
and by working hard to do so,
we show the depth of our love for Jehovah
and our desire to please him.
We are conquerors even now.
Jesus did not say he will conquer
at the end of the system of things.
He said that he already
had conquered when he was on earth.
John 16:33 says:
“In the world
you will have tribulation,
but take courage!
I have conquered the world.”
In the verse before, Jesus said:
“The Father is with me.”—John 16:32.
So, yes, Jehovah helped him to conquer.
Jesus did not have to fight alone,
and neither do we have to fight alone.
Jehovah and Jesus
are on our side to support us.
Paul said: “Jehovah is my helper;
I will not be afraid.
What can man do to me?”—Hebrews 13:6.
Be determined to keep conquering the world.
Winning one fight is not enough.
We have to keep fighting.
To conquer is a continuous action.
We need endurance.
Second Corinthians 4:16, Paul said:
“We do not give up.”
The Spanish, the Mongols, and the British
did not conquer their territories
in a day or a week or a month.
Similarly, Romans 12:21 says:
“Do not let yourself be conquered . . . ,
but keep conquering the evil with the good”
—continuous action.
Here’s a true or false.
Since we are much weaker than Jesus,
and since we are imperfect,
we can conquer the evil,
we can conquer the world,
but we cannot conquer Satan.
False. First John 2:14 says:
“I write you, young men,
because you are strong
and the word of God remains in you
and,” listen,
“you have conquered the wicked one.”
Yes, they conquered Satan
back in the first century;
we can do the same today.
We will not be able
to conquer Satan out of his existence.
Soon, though, Jehovah will
use Jesus and the anointed
to throw Satan and the demons
into an abyss of inactivity.
And at the end of the millennium,
they will crush Satan’s head completely,
according to Romans 16:20.
Satan and the demons
are not conquerors of God’s people.
They are losers.
Jehovah will also direct Christ Jesus
to “crush and put an end”
to all human political systems.
They also will end up being losers.
Now let’s read Romans 8:37-39,
and this assures all faithful ones.
It says:
“In all these things
we are coming off completely victorious
“through the one who loved us.
“For I am convinced
that neither death nor life nor angels
“nor governments nor things now here
nor things to come nor powers
“nor height nor depth nor any other creation
will be able to separate us
from God’s love
that is in Christ Jesus our Lord.”
In review,
be assured that
we can spiritually conquer the world
by remaining loyal to Jehovah, to Jesus,
and to the Kingdom.
We can spiritually conquer evil
by our faith, by our love,
and by doing good.
Second, we can also spiritually conquer
our own bad habits or wrong attitudes.
Third, we can spiritually conquer
Satan the Devil,
and we can do it even now.
Fourth, finally,
Jesus and the anointed
will completely conquer Satan,
the demons,
and all human governments
in opposition
to Jehovah at Armageddon
—the climax of the coming great tribulation.
What strong encouragement
we have
to continue to be conquerors!
Thank you very much, Brother Lösch.
We needed those words of encouragement
to be world conquerors.
We appreciate your help.
Now pay close attention
to Brother Geoffrey Jackson.
As expected,
he has an intriguing title for us:
“Expect the Unexpected.”
I’m sure every one of us
here today would agree
that this year’s regional convention program
was absolutely fantastic!
And probably one of the
most common comments
that have been made is that
many brothers and sisters have said,
“This convention has truly prepared us
for the great tribulation.”
And we certainly feel that way.
But as our minds think about
the great tribulation
and the importance of Jesus’ words,
it’s true, at times that our imagination,
perhaps, becomes very active.
We may have questions:
How long will be the great tribulation?
How will it affect me personally?
Will I be able to get my medication?
What about my cat?
Well, the short answer
to all those intriguing questions is:
We don’t know.
But there is something that we do know
beyond any doubt whatsoever.
Let’s turn to the book
of 2 Peter 2:9.
And this fact fills us with confidence
as we look to the future,
to the outbreak
of the great tribulation.
So, 2 Peter 2:9,
there it tells us:
“So, then, Jehovah knows
how to rescue people
of godly devotion out of trial.”
Yes, brothers and sisters,
we know Jehovah.
We know his record.
We’ve studied the Scriptures,
and we totally believe
that no matter what happens
—even though we don’t know
the details of what the future holds—
we believe that Jehovah knows
how to rescue righteous persons.
And we’ve seen time and time again
how Jehovah does the unexpected.
When we look through the Scriptures,
that point is emphasized
over and over again.
There are two scriptures that help
to fortify this faith
and belief that we have.
Let’s look at them together.
The first one is found
in the book of Ephesians,
Ephesians 3:20.
Here the apostle Paul
under inspiration tells us:
“Now to the one who can,
“according to his power
that is operating in us,
“do more than superabundantly beyond
all the things we ask or conceive.”
Now, this is a fantastic expression.
In the Writing Department,
if we were to write this,
I’m sure the proofreaders
would correct it.
But this is under inspiration.
For a start,
let’s think of the word “superabundantly.”
Now, the proofreaders may tell us,
“For a start, ‘abundant’ is enough.”
But here we have “superabundantly.”
Now, it doesn’t stop there, does it?
Because Paul then says under inspiration:
“more than superabundantly,”
and then it gets even better,
“beyond all the things we ask or conceive.”
This is certainly making the point, isn’t it?
And what is the point?
Jehovah can do things
beyond what we would expect.
It’s so interesting for us to note
that Jehovah does not limit himself
to what we ask for in our prayers.
And we can be happy
of that because he goes beyond anything
that we could ever think of
to solve our problems.
So, it’s true, at times we may see
no way out of our problems.
We may feel overwhelmed.
But remember, what does it say here?
Jehovah has the power
to “do more than superabundantly
beyond all the things we ask
or conceive.”
Now the second scripture
is in the book of Philippians 4:6.
Here again, we’re told:
“Do not be anxious over anything,
“but in everything by prayer
“and supplication along with thanksgiving,
“let your petitions be made known to God;
and the peace of God that,”
now notice again,
“surpasses all understanding
“will guard your hearts
and your mental powers
by means of Christ Jesus.”
Have you noticed in several
of the talks today,
the point is being made over and over again
that this precious possession
that we have
is our relationship with Jehovah?
We need to trust him.
Now, when the peace of God
comes to us because of praying
to Jehovah and trusting him,
what does it say here?
Then “that surpasses all understanding.”
Other translations put it this way:
“surpasses all our dreams,”
“excels all human planning,”
“is more wonderful than we can imagine.”
Truly, brothers and sisters,
we don’t need to know all the details
of what the future holds.
We know that our loving God, Jehovah,
will do things in a wonderful way.
Yes, he does the unexpected,
and he does it with style.
That’s the amazing thing.
As we read through the Scriptures,
we see this over and over again.
Let’s think about Haman
back in the days
of Esther and Mordecai.
Haman had a lot of money,
a lot of influence, and a plan.
He wanted to commit genocide
to destroy all of God’s people,
and it looked like the plan
was going to succeed.
But Haman didn’t know
what Jehovah had in mind.
Esther and Mordecai were in place.
And how things turned out!
The very day that the Jews
should have been slaughtered
and completely eradicated
was the day that their enemies
were killed instead.
But as we read through those events,
Jehovah did so many unexpected things.
Personally, I just love chapter 6.
Right in the middle of this intrigue
where we see what Jehovah is preparing,
then there’s an account
about the king not being able to sleep.
And, isn’t it wonderful?
You see Haman
comes in at the wrong time for Haman.
He assumes wrongly
that the king is going to bless him.
And what’s the result?
He has to be humiliated,
walking around in front of Mordecai
on a horse
wearing the king’s clothes!
That’s style!
Jehovah didn’t have to do that.
But when we look back on it,
that really is style, isn’t it?
And we can be sure that Jehovah
will continue to do these things
for his people.
Recently, of course, we just watched
that beautiful presentation
with regard to Hezekiah.
Didn’t that full-length movie
help us to imagine
exactly what happened at that time?
But in the case of Hezekiah,
what did he do
in the time leading up to that event?
Well, he fortified the city,
he stopped up the wells so the Assyrians
wouldn’t be able to get water,
he did all sorts of things to plan.
And yet, none of that was needed.
Why?
He didn’t realize what Jehovah
was going to do—the unexpected!
We didn’t even expect it when we saw
that angel in the movie, did we?
What a wonderful presentation it was!
But, you see,
Jehovah again did the unexpected.
None of his people
were thinking that Jehovah would do that.
And yet, he had the situation
under control.
And, of course,
time and time again
as we look through the Scriptures,
we see this emphasized.
Moses and the Israelites
—if we were standing with them
there on the shores of the Dead Sea
with the Egyptians coming behind us,
who of us would have ever guessed
that Jehovah was now
going to part the Red Sea?
I mean, that was unexpected!
It was also unexpected that the Egyptians
would be so stupid to follow the Israelites.
And yet, it resulted in a wonderful victory
for Jehovah’s people.
You see, expect the unexpected
when it comes to what Jehovah does.
Now, thinking back to what the apostle Paul
was inspired to say
to the brothers in Philippi,
let’s think about the setting
of when he wrote that
and a little bit of the background.
The apostle Paul said, basically:
“Don’t worry.
Pray because Jehovah
can do the unexpected.”
Well, was Paul perhaps
writing that particular time
as an academic sitting behind a desk
—someone who is testing out
something he doesn’t really know about?
Of course not!
We remember back at that time,
in 60 to 61 C.E.,
the apostle Paul was in prison in Rome.
He’d already experienced many,
many different hardships.
He knew what it was like
to be in a time of trial.
But even the very fact that he was writing
to the brothers in Philippi is of interest.
Let’s just refresh
our memories about this.
You’ll see the record in Acts 16.
But what actually happened
ten years before
Paul wrote the letter
to the brothers in Philippi?
Well, Paul was in Asia Minor.
He was trying to find somewhere
where the holy spirit
would allow him to preach.
So he went to one location—no.
He went to another location—no.
Eventually, he arrives at Troas,
and there one evening,
he sees a Macedonian man.
And what does he say?
“Step over into Macedonia.”
Well, Paul naturally assumed
this was Jehovah’s direction,
and immediately he made plans
to step over into Macedonia.
And this actually started
the preaching work in Europe.
Well, he arrived first
at the seaport of Neapolis
and then made his way to Philippi.
Well, immediately
there was some success.
Some started to accept the message.
But what happened shortly thereafter?
Well, as we already mentioned today,
the account tells us that Paul and Silas
were beaten up and thrown into a dungeon
—into a prison.
Now, if you were Paul
and you were sitting there in prison
with your back paining,
singing songs to bring yourself comfort,
perhaps would you think this:
‘What is Jehovah doing?
‘I mean, I was in Asia Minor.
‘I could’ve preached anywhere in Asia Minor.
‘But, no, the vision said,
“Step over into Macedonia.”
‘Now, I’m assuming there’s
a big door of activity open,
‘but now here I am in prison.
Why did Jehovah direct me to come here?’
I’m sure—
I think most of us would probably
start thinking along that line
and perhaps be discouraged.
Perhaps, at times,
you’ve felt you followed
Jehovah’s direction
and then you’ve had problems.
So we’re used to understanding
that situation.
But what happened that very night?
An earthquake,
the doors of the prison open up,
the jailer and his family accept the truth
—and then this is where it proves again
Jehovah has style—
those magistrates apologize to Paul.
Paul says: “No, you take us out.
And you escort us out of the city.”
Now, that’s style!
And as we read, what do we notice?
I imagine this in my mind.
It says Paul said good-bye to Lydia.
And I imagine, maybe I’m wrong,
but I’m imagining the magistrates
standing outside Lydia’s home
waiting for Paul to say good-bye
and then continuing to
escort them out of the city.
Now, not only is that style
but it was practical
because it appears that, perhaps,
Luke, the doctor, was left to stay there
in Philippi
and establish the congregation.
And, no doubt, those magistrates
would have thought twice
before they did anything bad
to the Christians after that.
But, what’s the point?
At times, we may feel that there’s
no way out of our problems.
But, surely, the lesson that we learn
over and over and over again
is that Jehovah
can turn things completely around.
Yes, even though we may speculate and think:
‘What if? Maybe he’ll do this,’
in the end, when we look back on events,
we can’t help but be impressed
with how Jehovah handles things.
He has everything under control.
So that brings us back
to the regional convention
—the Sunday program.
We all enjoyed that symposium of talks
with the little videos
dealing with the great tribulation.
Maybe for most of us,
it took us a while
to work out
what they were doing in the basement.
Usually, by the time there was a knock,
then we started to realize
that it was at the time
of the great tribulation.
And with excitement,
we watched as that door opened
and there the police, the military,
were facing our brothers and sisters.
And you were waiting!
Will the angel come and take them out?
Will fire come from heaven?
And we were left hanging.
Why?
The simple answer: We don’t know.
But one thing is for sure.
If Jehovah is on our side,
we do not need to fear men.
Yes, it’s true.
We don’t know all the details
of the great tribulation.
We don’t know exactly what’s
going to happen in the future.
But, we do know
that our loving heavenly Father, Jehovah God,
has everything under control.
Yes, he has style!
So we can expect the unexpected!
I used to give talks
like that when I was young.
We have another blessing,
and it’s to be presented by the tongue
of Brother Anthony Morris.
Listen carefully as he develops
the theme “Run to Jehovah.”
I have to say, I remember those talks.
I miss them so much, Sam.
Oh boy!
Expect the unexpected!
Thank you very much.
Oh boy!
Now I have to get very serious.
Jehovah in his Holy Word
forewarned us to expect ridicule
for our conviction
that he’s going to destroy
Satan’s wicked system of things.
Quoting Scripture: “Where is this
promised presence of his? . . .
All things are continuing exactly
as they were from creation’s beginning.”
In other words, everything is the same;
nothing has really changed.
Are things really the same?
Well, here in the United States,
among the many shootings
—I’m thinking of the one not too long ago
down in Dallas, Texas—
this man was shooting at police officers,
and they caught video of it.
And people didn’t know
what the shooting was about
or who was the particular target,
so they started to run.
They didn’t know where they were running,
but they were just looking for safety
—running, looking for safety.
Panic was in their faces.
You could see it on the video.
Now, during these final days
of Satan’s rule,
all over the world,
people are frightened.
They don’t know
where to go to be safe.
But we have something
to direct them to.
Turn to Proverbs chapter 18,
and this is where we have the theme
for this final talk
here at our annual meeting.
Proverbs 18:10:
“The name of Jehovah is a strong tower.
Into it the righteous one runs
and receives protection.”
Yes, as wickedness
advances from bad to worse,
we have to run to Jehovah
to be protected, to be safe.
And once we’re in the tower
—to remain there—
that means we look to Jehovah in faith,
in obedience,
and we recognize
how important it is
to faithfully represent that name.
So the purpose of this talk
is to encourage all of us to run to Jehovah.
Those of us that have run to him,
don’t lose heart,
and be busy teaching others
that they better run
to Jehovah before it’s too late.
Now, the end is very close,
and it’s obvious.
Why is it obvious?
Well, we’re going to review
some fundamental truths
that are so spiritually fortifying.
And you really can’t
review them often enough.
Matthew chapter 24,
and we’re going to clearly emphasize
why we know we’re close.
Matthew 24.
After Jesus here has mentioned
what’s going to happen to the temple
and, of course,
he gets to the third verse here
where the disciples
in private approach him,
which were Peter, James,
John, and Andrew.
And they want to know:
“When will these things be,
“and what will be the sign of your presence
and of the conclusion
of the system of things?”
So this presence is referring to
Jesus’ enthronement as King
in his royal visit to this earth.
Now, what stands out,
we have the increase of lawlessness
—and you might keep in mind—
that’s not just criminal lawlessness,
that’s disdain for Jehovah’s law.
See, people forget that.
And look at the disdain
for Jehovah’s law.
Now, after he emphasizes in verse 36
that no human is going to know
the day or the hour,
notice what Jesus stated, verse 37:
“For just as the days of Noah were,
“so the presence
of the Son of man will be.
“For as they were in those days
before the Flood,
“eating and drinking, men marrying
and women being given in marriage,
“until the day
that Noah entered into the ark,
“and they took no note
until the Flood came and swept them all away,
so the presence
of the Son of man will be.”
So there we have this clear comparison
—it goes back to the days of Noah.
They took no note,
and we see the same today.
While we rejoice with the thousands
that are dedicating themselves
to Jehovah God
and getting baptized each year,
the fact is, all over the earth,
by far the majority take no note.
They are busy about their daily affairs,
and they’re not interested.
They don’t want to run to Jehovah.
It just doesn’t have any appeal
to make such changes.
Now,
what sometimes seems
to be forgotten
is found here in Genesis 6.
Why did Jehovah take the action?
Genesis chapter 6.
Let’s remind ourselves of what really
brought this to a head
to where Jehovah took action.
And it’s connected with our day
because this is what’s motivating him
to soon take action.
Here we find Genesis 6:5:
“Consequently, Jehovah saw
that man’s wickedness was great on the earth
“and that every inclination
of the thoughts of his heart
was only bad all the time.”
Now, notice this
—it’s very significant—verse 11:
“But the earth had become ruined
in the sight of the true God.”
Why?
“The earth was filled with violence.”
Sound familiar?
It stayed that way
for some time, and then, finally,
Jehovah is fed up with the violence.
And notice verse 13:
“After that God said to Noah:
“‘I have decided to put an end to all flesh,
“‘because the earth is full of violence
“‘on account of them,
so I am bringing them
to ruin together with the earth.’”
“Full of violence.”
See?
Same thing today
—this earth is full of violence.
But that’s what moved Jehovah to act.
And then the violence continued,
and finally, in chapter 7, verse 1:
“Go into the ark.”
After years of constructing it,
Jehovah had had enough of the violence.
Now, this is pertinent.
In 1987, the May 15 Watchtower,
page 20,
paragraph 18,
made this profound statement
related to the Flood
and connecting it with our day:
“Many of those who died
in the Flood no doubt
“considered themselves ‘nice’ people,
“not being involved in the violence
that filled society in those days.
“But just being ‘nice’ did not save them.
“By their apathy
“they condoned the evil of their day.
“The crucial thing
was that they did not ‘run’ to Jehovah;
“they did not listen
when God’s servant spoke.
“So they did not take
the proper steps
for survival.”
And that’s where we are now.
People must understand.
We have to preach and teach them.
They need to run to Jehovah
now before it’s too late.
And during his presence,
all through these decades
ruling in the midst of his enemies,
you have to accept the fact
that the degree of violence
at this point is mind-numbing.
It’s just all over the earth—violence.
And it isn’t just because of the media
and the Internet and such;
it’s just filled with violence.
So keep that in mind,
and we see that today.
And something else Jesus connected
when he was comparing his presence
with the days of Noah
—note this here in Luke 17.
And this is the second thing
that just makes it very obvious
we are so close,
and Jehovah is going to take action.
And this is his judgment.
Now, we would have people in general—
Some countries would find
what we’re going to discuss here
hate-mongering,
but we will never water down
Jehovah’s Word,
sticking close with it.
These are the words of Jesus Christ.
If they want to take issue with him,
let them go ahead.
Luke chapter 17, the Pharisees want
to know when the Kingdom is coming.
Now, in verse 26 of Luke 17,
he makes the connection
about the days of Noah,
which we just addressed
and how he entered into the ark.
Now, let’s read 28 through 30:
“Likewise, just as it occurred
in the days of Lot:
“they were eating, they were drinking,
they were buying, they were selling,
“they were planting, they were building.
“But on the day that Lot went out of Sodom,
“it rained fire and sulfur from heaven
and destroyed them all.
“It will be the same on that day
when the Son of man is revealed.”
Oh yeah.
When Jesus is revealed
at the great tribulation, that’s it.
Jehovah is fed up
with the sexual depravity as well.
Now, two other Bible writers
connect these two events,
and that’s why we see
how close we are.
If you look at the world today,
it’s right before our eyes.
Notice Jude, here.
Let’s turn over to Jude.
And he was inspired
to encourage us, especially those
who’ve already run to Jehovah.
Jude 6,
and we’re going
to read 6 in the letter of Jude:
“And the angels who did not
keep their original position
“but forsook
their own proper dwelling place,
“he has reserved
with eternal bonds in dense darkness
for the judgment of the great day.”
So here we have it.
This was a perversion
—unnatural—
and he was addressing this.
Jehovah inspired Jude to write this.
These disobedient angels
materialized bodies, as we all know,
and cohabited with women,
and they produced offspring
—half-human, half-demon.
A very difficult time for the earth,
and Jehovah found that despicable.
Now, this part of what happened prior
to the Flood of Noah’s day
is connected with verse 7,
this sexual depravity.
Let’s read verse 7:
“In the same manner,
“Sodom and Gomorrah
and the cities around them
“also gave themselves over
“to gross sexual immorality
“and pursued unnatural fleshly desires;
“they are placed before us
as a warning example
“by undergoing the judicial punishment
of everlasting fire.”
So Jehovah doesn’t mince any words here.
This sexual depravity
found in the cities throughout this earth,
he’s had enough of it.
And you’d have to admit
that just like
the Scriptures bring out
in Genesis chapters 13 and 18,
Jehovah said this “cry of complaint”
was going up.
And all of the perverted ones
—and not just Sodom and Gomorrah,
but the cities nearby—
and this cry of complaint
was just too much
for Jehovah to take,
and he took action.
However, what about our day?
Well, the sexual depravity—
They don’t think they’re depraved,
and our saying so
is judgmental, offensive
—at least to them.
And we don’t intend to try
to deliberately offend people.
We just—
This is what the Scriptures teach.
It’s perverted,
and we support Jehovah’s judgment on that.
However, the spirit of Satan’s world is:
“How foolish to believe that the story
“of the Flood and the story
of Sodom and Gomorrah are true.
You people are foolish!”
Well, these stories are true.
And Peter really makes it very clear here
as he was inspired to write this,
2 Peter and the second chapter.
And so we love Jehovah
for inspiring him to make this so clear
because it helps us
to understand how close we are.
And 2 Peter 2:4-6:
“Certainly God did not refrain
“from punishing the angels who sinned,
but threw them into Tartarus,
“putting them in chains of dense darkness
to be reserved for judgment.
“And he did not refrain
from punishing an ancient world,
“but kept Noah,
a preacher of righteousness,
“safe with seven others
when he brought a flood
upon a world
of ungodly people.”
Now, notice this profound point, verse 6:
“And by reducing the cities
of Sodom and Gomorrah to ashes,
“he condemned them,
“setting a pattern
for ungodly people
of things to come.”
That’s the pattern
for all these ungodly people.
What Jehovah did in the Flood
as well as in the day
of Sodom and Gomorrah
and judged them there
—there’s the pattern.
That’s their future if they choose
not to run to Jehovah.
So considering this Scriptural evidence
—the earth is filled with violence
and sexual depravity—
it’s just so clear we’re
so close to the great tribulation.
And contemplating what may occur
—and it connects with Brother Jackson’s
comments about the great tribulation—
we just need to ‘trust in Jehovah
with all our heart
and not lean
on our own understanding.’
And how reassuring to know
that very soon no one will worry
about their safety
or the safety of their loved ones.
The violence of the last days
will be done away with.
All the sexually immoral people
who brazenly flaunt
our precious Jehovah’s laws
will be destroyed,
just as they were
in Sodom and Gomorrah.
So rest assured,
Jehovah hears our cry of complaint.
Do not lose heart.
All you righteous worshippers
of the true God, remember:
“The name of Jehovah
is a strong tower.
Into it the righteous one runs
and receives protection.”
Thank you very much, Brother Morris.
That was a fine conclusion
to this wonderful program.
We have received blessings galore
in the form of things
that ‘are true, serious concern,
‘righteous, chaste,
‘lovable, well-spoken-of,
virtuous, praiseworthy,’
“good and acceptable.”
We already announced that depending
on the direction you will be going
when you leave the building,
you can use the side doors
onto Pavonia Avenue
or go through the main lobby
and exit through the front.
Well, is there any other announcement
that I could make?
Yes, there is.
In fact,
the Governing Body requested
that the following announcement
be made today.
Are you ready?
Well, let me set the stage
for the announcement.
As you might have guessed,
there have been many questions
and some wild speculations
about the upcoming dedication program
for the Wallkill and Warwick
completed facilities.
You’re about to get the definitive answer.
Our announcement
reads this way:
“The Governing Body is pleased
to inform you that the new facilities
“at Wallkill and Warwick
will be dedicated in conjunction
“with the annual meeting program
on October 7, 2017.
“The annual meeting
and dedication program will originate
“from world headquarters
in the auditorium at Warwick.
“Hence, the number of attendees
that will enjoy it live
“in the auditorium will be limited.
“However, the Governing Body
has approved that the program
“will be streamed to
all Bethel facilities in the United States
“and all Assembly Halls in the United States,
“including here
at the Jersey City Assembly Hall.
“In this way,
it is hoped that all who volunteered to work
“on the Wallkill and Warwick projects
will be able to attend the annual meeting
“and the dedication program
associated therewith.
“However, the program will not be streamed
“to other branch offices
or Assembly Halls in other lands.
“The United States Branch Committee
“will be providing more details
about the arrangements in due time.
“Again, the dedication
of Wallkill and Warwick facilities
“will be in connection
with the annual meeting
“on October 7, 2017.
Your brothers,
the Governing Body of Jehovah’s Witnesses.”
That brings us to the conclusion
of our program,
and I invite all of you to stand
and sing another of our new songs.
We know it for the time being
as song number 136:
“The Kingdom Is in Place—Let It Come!”
Please sing this majestic song
with full throat,
just as it deserves, song number 136.